# TUTORIAL: solve TDGL
- Execute one of the codes in /initialization/ to generate the initial state.
        
        gcc initialization/flatinit.c -o .bin/flatinit
        ./flatinit <lattice points> <flat value>

        gcc initialization/datainit.c -o .bin/datainit
        ./datainit <lattice points>

        For more, see /initialization/README.md
    It will be created a file named "fileinit.dat" which has the _seed_ and the _number of lattice points_ in the first line.
    In the following lines it contains the $u(x,0)$ values.
    **NOTE:** You have to select **$N$ even** to use "tdgl", because the FFT algotithm used assumes that $N$ is even!!!

- Execute "tdglfd". 

    ### The execution of this code **is MANDATORY BEFORE evolving the state with "tdgl"
    (even for $\Delta t = 0$) for evolving the system with "tdgl", **because it creates the necessary file "tdgl_result.dat".**
    
    This code evolves the state with **Explicit euler** (_fd_ stands for _finite difference_) for a time $tspan$ (with discrete time step $dt$) with varying in time $C(t) = \bar{C} + A\sin(2\pi t/T)$ (where we adopt the convention $T/2 = -1$ means that C is costant and $C=A$)
        
        gcc tdglfd.c -o .bin/tdglfd -lm
        ./tdglfd <tspan> <A> <T> <Caverage> <dt>
        

    - If the initial state is not smooth (it was generated by "datainit") you _have to_ execute this code _at least for a short period_, because "tdgl" needs a smooth initial state [cit. TUNG]
    - While if the initial state is flat, then you don't need to evolve the system with this code. Anyway you still need to execute it for a timespan equal to zero, in order to create the file "tdgl_result.dat" that _is necessary_ for running "tdgl".

    The code creates a file "tdgl_result.dat" that contains in the first row
    - the number of lattice points N
    - the time $t$ of the state (the following lines contain the state $(x, u(x,t))$)
    - dx and dt integration steps
    - the seed (this information can be used when reading the data to label a plot or to perform again the same evolution for _troubleshooting_)
    - the amplitude $A$ and the half-period $T/2$ of the $C(t)$ evolution
    
- Execute "tdgl", this code evolves **progressively** the state in Fourier space. 
It is **necessary** to execute before "tdglfd", even for a timespan = 0, in order to initialize the "tdgl_result.dat" file (with certain exeptions: flatsinit.c, see more on /initialization/).

    The syntax is the same of "tdglfd"

        gcc tdgl.c -o .bin/tdglfd -lfftw3 -lm
        ./tdgl <tspan> <A> <T> <Caverage> <dt>
    It needs the existance of the file "tdgl_result.dat" to be run and the initial state must be smooth (because a sinusoidal decomposition must make sense).

    It **updates** the state recorded in "tdgl_result.dat", updating even the time $t$ of the state.
    The new values of $C(t)$ in time and of the space average of $u(x,t)$ are **appended** in the files "fileCout.dat" and "fileAveout.dat", so those files contains information about **the whole** simulation (from $t=0$).

    The files "fileCout.dat" and "fileAveout.dat" are emptied when "tdglfd" or "flatinit" or "datainit" are executed and the file "fileinit.dat" is overwritten.

## Saving
You can execute "save.ipynb" to save the results (initial/final states, <u(t)>, C(t)) of the evolution (see the notebook for more info).

You only need to specify:
- the **folder** were save the results. Results contained in the same folder can be plotted on the same canvas.
- a **custom label** that will be show when you plot many results on the same canvas. It is saved in _label.dat_. [This feature is not present in "flat plot" script, that will neglect this file]

## Plotting

- **Rapid** plot
    - _rapid plot.ipynb_ just plots the space average of $u(t)$ and the final state $u(x,tmax)$ of the **last** simulation (**it's not necessary to save**)
    - _rapid multiplot.ipynb_ plots the space average of $u(t)$ and the final state of **ALL** the experiments contained **in the specified folder**.
- **Flat** plot
    
    They are some scripts to plot the results of evolution of a flat profile. The oscillatory behaviour is removed by evaluating $u(t)$ only at times $t=nT$. [To plot old simulation, you may have to edit the script and remove "Cave" from the values that you expect to read in the first line of "tdgl_results.dat"]